

Exploring Faith and Spirituality

Before Jesus:
When I was barely five is when I started to pray to God. I didn't have any traditional upbringing in the church, but I knew that God was the only one who could help me. I suffered from extreme anxiety of death and what's to come after life. So I took to praying to God asking him to take away these anxieties and he did. It is in this origin that I build my faith. 

What we don't know:
Looking back on my childhood and young adult years it seems strange to me now that I didn't know, or even bother to get to know Jesus. I believed then as I do now that God took care of all my needs, he loved me, and I was one of his favorites. I used to tell people "Don't worry I am taken care of" and I meant it. 

The Fall:
Before my son was born I was a mess. I moved out to Colorado looking for something new. I still believed in God, but I ignored him. I got into Cocaine, and other drugs. I was face down into the bottle, and drinking several gallons of that hard stuff a week. I was strung out in the back of an Audi looking for a hit when my best friend called. His mother died, and I could not be there for him. A few weeks later I packed up and moved back to Oregon

The Climb:
I quit that hard stuff, but the alcohol stayed for many years. I got myself a wife,  had my first son, and adopted two girls. Life was hard, but it was about to get a lot harder. My mother was stricken by a terrible illness that took her mind. My father was stricken with grief, and my first wife left me and my son high and dry with two lawn chairs and a 40" TV set.  

The Plea:
I got my son full time, and eventually my daughters too. That was all that mattered to me after the divorce, but I was down and out. I couldn't hold it together, and worst of all my children were suffering without a mother. I broke down hard, fell to the bed sobbing, and asked with every fiber of humility in me for everything I would need to be sure I never let my children down like this again. 

The Answer:
It was maybe the next day that I met Tabitha Shepherd, now Tabitha Cherry. My reward from God for the very little good I've done with my life. My proof I'm taken care of, my proof God loves me, my proof he provides what I need, and my proof that I am one of his favorites. She became the mother my children needed, the wife and best friend I needed, my guarantee that I would never let my children down, and ultimately my path to Jesus Christ. 

Baptized at Hamby Church of Christ

The Christian Life abides:

Reborn and rewriting the future
I was baptized at the Hamby Church of Christ in July of 2018 by Coy D Roper, grandfather of my wife, and blessed teacher of God's word. Sadly, though Coy lived to marry my wife and I, he was not well enough in January of 2023 to baptize my son. My son was baptized by Jon Schwiethale, the preacher at Hamby Church, and dear friend. Coy died June 17th 2023, He is dearly missed. I am proud to be the last person he baptized. I only wish we would have had more time to talk, and talked more. 



If you want to know more about my life as a Christian follow my blogs in the "His words" section. If you want to know more about my past life head over to "His Old Life".


