
Religion can be good. What is not good is, for lack of a better term, "selfish religion" where the morality, righteousness, and holiness of God is traded for interpreted ethics, self righteousness backed by a holier than though stance. There is something extremely admirable about a person who upholds all action to the highest standard, even if they struggle at knowing what that standard is. When something as simple as tying your shoes is done in a matter believed to be pleasing to God it makes that mundane action worthy of the gift of life, and that's truly saying something. It's just too bad that honor is too often placed on self and not left with God. There is nothing more annoying than someone who honors, and serves themselves through kindness to others. It poisons the righteousness of the action. It's like buying a cup of coffee for the person behind you in line, leaving your change in the cup of the bagger, opening your door and sharing a meal with your neighbor, then telling the world how good YOU are for it. Then looking at someone else doing the same things and gawking at it as though it's not worthy of praise because YOU didn't do it, or it was in the name of God but has no worth because God wasn't properly worshiped in YOUR way, or at all in some cases. I believe there are far Hollier, righteous, and selfless acts committed by those who claim nothing at all than those who claim God for themselves, but that's a controversial statement in many churches.
I am religious. I do believe in the teachings of Jesus Christ, they do call me Christian, but none of this defines me. I am, was, and have always been defined by God, even before I proclaimed it to be so. What I am and what people see is of course relevant, but only in so far as others are able to look at me and see God's work, and the truth and light of Jesus Christ. Not because I say it or because I proclaim it, or because of the way I do things. It has to be because HE says it, He proclaims it, and because of the way HE does things. Jesus said "I am the way" so I follow. Jesus said "the path to heaven is narrow" so I expect to stray. Jesus said "love the lord thy God with all your heart and all your soul, and love your neighbor as you love yourself" what does that mean? I am willing to wager my life on the fact that I don't know, but I have faith that what he says is true. Jesus said "a mustard seed of faith can move mountains" I have seen it. I have lived it, and those who know me openly bear witness to it. I am not a beacon of light, I am a window from which the light shines through. Stained glass perhaps, but anyone willing to look close enough can see where the light comes from, and that, I believe, is really all the purpose anyone could need. To serve as a window to the light of Jesus that guides all to the kingdom of heaven.
I don't ask that anyone follows me, I don't ask that anyone listens to me. I simply ask that if you are close enough to notice the stains that block the light please take the time, and make the same effort to look through the holes at where the light comes from, and if you could be so kind as to let that light shine through you too, or at the very least pass by, I would be happy to let you stand as close to me as you need to, or as far away as you wish to let that light through wherever we can manage.