A Somber Tale of Hope.

June 24, 2013. © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

Do you see the ocean?
The worlds greatest moments are conceived without words.
All life has a tale, all tales have an end, and all things that end, end at the sea.
As the sun sinks slowly into the bed she provides,
the moon wakes to light her memories, and on each wave paints an image,
a timeless film of ghosts humanity has all but forgotten.

I imagine her as an old lady, my grandmother the sea.
Around since the beginning of my time,
and as I understand it, all time before.
Painting lessons on a blue canvas under dim light,
so that my imagination can take what it wants,
as she bids farewell to infinity.

She tells a somber tale, within a hopeful serenade of bad memories.
like a grandmother speaking softly to a young child,
Without prejudice or bias,
as the child becomes curious of their fathers past.
She sings fondly of mans worst crimes as if all the bad has been dried up by time,
and all that remains is the laughter she couldn't find that day.

Crashing harshly each tale into the sand where once could be seen two sets of footprints,
​their silhouette still glistening lightly in the moonlight left to show them.
High above those footprints once touched two lips, which spoke two words.
These two words absorbed into the endless moonlit tale like the sunlight absorbs into the horizon,
turning endlessly within each crashing memory, but not to be said the same again.
I do.

Do you see the ocean?
A timeless film of ghosts humanity has all but forgotten.
I imagine her as an old lady, my grandmother the sea,
as she bids farewell to infinity,

She tells a somber tale, within a hopeful serenade of bad memories.
and all that remains is the laughter she couldn't find that day,
crashing harshly, each tale, into the sand where once could be seen two sets of footprints.
I do.

Do you see the ocean?
as she bids farewell to infinity,
She tells a somber tale, within a hopeful serenade of bad memories.
I do.

Do you see the Ocean?
I do.

