Childhood Melody

July 29, 2009. © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

Step off the porch into the sand, candle flickers in my hand.
The midnight sun silhouettes were the ocean meets the land.
And somewhere in the distant sky, a shooting star goes cruising by,
I make no wish but save its kiss for a memory not yet planned.
I walk my way into the fog, candle burning, almost gone,
listlessness becomes me but my heart is burning strong.
The moonlight sings a gentle tune to pierce the silences of June,
and crashing waves compliment the melancholy song.
Looking out into the sea I think of all things that could be,
The melody releases me and suddenly I'm free.
Money leads the way to greed, but nature offers me no fee,
believing in the things that yesterday seamed obsolete.
oblique deceitful lies entwine, and somehow here form a straight line,
pointing fingers just like mine only this time right at me.
So many live in bigotry, and take this life so seriously,
it's not too late to change so we might find serenity.
Emotions these days seem so canned how can man ever hope to stand,
when we gage our life accomplishments by the wealth we hold in hand.
Solitudes in high demand, and relationships cannot withstand,
the constant breaking trust between a women and a man.
The candle light describes it best midnight mist puts it to the test,
the candle flickers out and the darkness starts to expand.
fear starts to take over me I no longer hear the melody,
my footprints disappear and hope is lost out in the sand.
The mist becomes the life unknown the dark is the enemy un-shown,
the candle was the wealth that I once held in my hand.
The melody was a childhood dream lost out somewhere in the sea,
and footprints were the path that lead me through the timeless sand.
the ocean is the resting place for those like me who lost the way,
can't say what might have been if I had wished instead of planned.
No shooting stars are left in sight the one I saved burned out tonight,
So I walk into the sea and drift away, I feel so damned.
History repeats itself again.