Earth Bound Eagles

June 7, 2015. © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

Side by side
Two birds without a cause
Not going home tonight
No matter what the cost
But when the plane went down
And I could not wake you up
Though you were not afraid to die
I just couldn’t close your eyes…

I don’t claim to be great man, good is good enough for me.
It was good enough for God’s green Earth; it’s just the way I chose to be.
I never fought for flag or country, But I’ll stand for what is right.
That’s got to stand for something, I don’t lack in sacrifice.
And though I would gladly die for you, it was you who died for me.
I swear to always smile for you, and keep your memory.

So I’m breaking the ground in this one horse town,
It’s clear I won’t be flying again.
Decisions made might be easier said,
But the end results not the end.
And since everyone talks in this one horse town,
I don’t know what might be said in the end.
Remember me not for the things that they say,
Just the smile I’ll have till the end.

It’s been a while since I last spoke to you; life has held the best of me
I’m sure you’ve missed my words of comfort, like I miss your company
I haven’t lost my way from God’s grace; I just lost a couple fights
Trying hard to stand for something, while I grieve your sacrifice.
I swear I will not die for you; you’ve already died for me.
I still wear this smile with honor, and hold your memory.

Summer winds down in this one horse town,
And I feel like I’ve been flying again.
Some might say it was easier said,
If it was I won’t know till the end.
But since everyone talks in this one horse town,
I’m sure I’ll be a hero again.
Remember me not for the things that are said,
Just the smile I’ll keep till the end.

I don’t claim to be a smart man; I’m good, whole, and free.
I tried to fly again last Sunday, church was never meant for me.
And as I headed down that runway, I felt it wasn’t right.
No matter what the cost, I was going on that flight.
But I swore I wouldn’t die for you, and that promise I will keep.
I will burn that plane tomorrow, in loving memory.

As the dust settles down in this one horse town,
You can see that I’ve been smiling again.
Everyone knows it was easier said,
But it’s clear I won’t die till the end.
And since everyone dies in this one horse town,
I suppose that they’ll be talking again.
Remember the words that were easier said,
When I’m flying with you again.