Hand me Down

July 1, 2016. © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

Sometimes life is just too much when you're seventeen,
and the only person that you love is set to leave.
His daddy shared the lessons he found,
and laid his dark thoughts in the ground.
There was nothing left to be said, those words saved his life.

Barely age eighteen when his daddy died.
Choked back every tear that he felt because men don't cry.
When he put his dad in the ground,
it was the last time he let him down.
The only sound were the words his daddy said that night.

Some lessons they are not fun,
here's another hard one.
Your answer is the open end of a gun?
Son a hero, that is not one!

I'll always be your right hand,
on any side of life I stand.
I've shown you everything that I am,
in hopes you'll be the better man.

I may die today,
someday you will die too,
and any good that we may have done,
dies with me and you.

His son was set to leave when they got the word.
Mothers cancer won't give up the ghost, and it's getting worse.
Another round of tears to choke down,
and his boy was Army bound.
It seems the lesson that found him today is real men do cry.

Twenty years gone by since his daddy died.
Rebuilt his faith in God, and love with a son, and wife.
It took all the faith he had found,
to put his son's mother in the ground.
The only thing he could think to say were his daddy's lines.

Some lessons they are not fun,
here's another hard one.
If the open end of a gun,
makes a hero, I am not one

I'll always be your right hand.
no matter where you make your stand.
I've shown you everything that I am,
in hopes you'll be the better man.

And though she died today,
someday we will die too,
And any good that we may have done,
dies with me and you

Forty years of age when he got the news.
There is no escape from the pain of what our children choose.
Though they know where the plane went down,
they can't get anybody on the ground.
Forty years of age was the age he died.

Overseas in a man made hell when his daddy died.
Fighting wars for a country torn between wrong and right.
And when he put his gun on the ground,
it was the last time he let him down,
as he shared his last lesson learned behind enemy lines

Some lessons they are not fun,
here's another hard one.
Standing on the open end of a gun,
and a hero, I am not one.

I place the choice in your hands,
but this is where I make my stand.
I've shown you everything that I am,
in hopes you'll be the better man.

Though I may die today,
one day you will die too,
And any good that we may have done,
dies with me and you.

Any good that we may have done,
dies with me and you.