Home is Where the Heart Is

July 29, 2009.  © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

At the edge of an old dirt road I lay
Confused but seemingly unhurt
Thoughtless about the child I just saved
At night as a child id sit and stare out the window
Dreaming with my eyes open about what I would be.
So full of heart and soul in that cozy little home of mine
Trading time in for things only my mind could see.
Day dreams under the stars at night
Night dreams in the day.
Outcast for these thoughts of mine
To me a worthy price to pay.
But today my dreams are barely worth dreaming
If they were good I wouldn’t remember.
I’ve lost the heart I once had one time
Cant even find a glowing ember.
They tell me home is were the heart is
But how can I find home without the heart to find it
And if I could, what would it matter
Without the ability to remind it
Of those days when it and I were one
And my life was complete.
As a child untouched by evil
Now a man with no blood to bleed
Its been dried up
Consequence of my failure to find home again
A constant battle to escape without a winner
My inner thoughts masked and hidden from me
By something I wont explain
Or cant I don’t remember
Or cant
No longer can this pain I feel go on
Beyond what once was thought to be what I needed
Was a fine print my heart wasn’t there to read
Death is only a heartbeat away
I laugh as my heart lies beat less
Immortal in this everlasting life of no home I stay
Remembering always that death is a heartbeat away
And still pursuing that feeling of home.
So now on the shoulder of this cold road I lay
With the child I saved standing over me
My eyes fade in and out of darkness
My ears turning off and on.
I close my eyes and hear two words
“Thank you”
I’m too out of it to know what’s going on
My mouth moves in the motions
but before I can get out your welcome
I feel that feeling I long for
That feeling of home
Accompanied by that beat that ends it
My heart beats again only once
But long enough to know it does exist
My sacrifice to find my heart
Well worth one moment of bliss. 