Myself and Me

February 11, 2010. © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

Thought id buy myself a rocket ride,
fly somewhere to hide, and rebuild my pride
from a second glance you could see I wasn't me.
Seventeen had a better dream,
now I'm twenty three, and what's there to see.
with a second chance I could break away from free.

No one better ever raise a toast,
to a lonely host, in a strangers home
just grab your jacket, and give up your last seat
Memories are just films of ghosts,
the ones I love most, and the roads I chose.
breaking ground on the things that made me me

All those times I love them, but left them behind.
Gatta get my feet back under me
All my friends and lovers will find me in time
Tryin to keep myself and I away from myself and me

Never got to take that rocket ride,
with my broken pride, got nowhere to hide.
Just a lonely man with the will of spartan fleet.
Guess it's best to let the pain subside,
so I clear my mind, walk with angels kind.
while this sinners last breath try's to consume me

In a year or two I'll be brand new,
no more super glue, no more strangers shoes
even if I'm walking on bear feet.
Counting blessings in a wishing well
every coin that fell, must have fell to hell.
Cause I feel a burning for every silver piece

All those coins I tossed them, and left them behind
Trading life for wishes wasn't me
All my friends and lovers will find me in time
Tryin to keep myself and I away from myself and me

Kinda wish I took that rocket ride,
Sometimes I curse my pride, but my cold hearts fine
ill just bury sorrow in the things that make me, me
Tomorrow night you'll see a stronger guy
with the will to fly, and no time to hide
Tonight I'll take the time to cry for what I've seen

In the end I'll be a better man,
not a different man, this is where I stand
If I'm hit I'll never turn the other cheek
Eclipse the devil that beds down inside,
bring out my other side, swallow foolish pride.
I'll let my friends come find those things that they can't see.

One way or another I'll leave me behind
Try to find the things I haven't seen
all my friends and lovers will find me in time
Tryin to bring back things that me and myself can be
Takin down the bottles that hang on life's hangin tree
Tryin to keep myself and I away from myself and me