The Ruffian Anthem

June 12, 2015.  © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

We’re a ruffian bunch, all riddled with scars!
So we smoke, and we drink out of cracked mason jars.
Yes we laugh, and we fight, and play old guitars.
Always wrong, always right, always lighting cigars!
 
In hollowed out log, on Dennison Street,
Filled with old wrinkled faces, and plenty to eat.
You can hear guitars clanging for a dollar a seat,
If you feel like I feel, then come sing with me!
 
You’re a con, you’re a liar, damned to burn in hell fire!
No desire to be more, what are you waiting for?
Close the door, dance the floor, let the evening transpire
Dance the night till you tire be you Lady or Sire.
 
It’s a thought, it’s a curse, it’s a title, the worst!
Not the first, or the last, just a half something glass,
But alas, feelings pass, as the memories burst,
Though it bites, though it hurts, it was worth all its worth!
 
We’re a ruffian bunch we speak riddles, and sing!
Take what is needed, and give everything.
We’ve nothing to give, and nothing to bring,
So linger a while, while I tune up these strings.
 
In a hollowed out log on Dennison Street,
Where the thieves and the beggars all gather to meet.
You can drink, you can sing, for a dollar a seat,
Only one rule applies, you aren’t leaving with me!
 
You’re a Fake, you’re a cheat, you never paid for your seat,
Be discrete, yes we know, you’re the lowest of low!
Friend or foe, dance the floor, let the evening be sweet
Dance the night till your feet, feel like weighted concrete! 
 
It’s a thought, it’s a curse, it’s a title, the worst!
Not the first, or the last, just a half something glass,
But alas, feelings pass, as the memories burst,
Though it bites, though it hurts, it was worth all its worth!
 
We’re a ruffian bunch, all riddled with scars!
So we smoke, and we drink out of cracked mason jars.
Yes we laugh, and we fight, and play old guitars.
Always wrong, always right, always lighting cigars!
 
This hollowed out log, has and un-favored view,
But I know where I stand, just between me and you.
I am good, to the core, a real man through, and through,
Off with you, out the door, now we bid you adieu!