Free men get Louder
  
 
September 9, 2016.  © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

I wasn't there August twenty eighth, nineteen sixty three,
when a free man marched up Lincolns stairs, and declared “I have a dream!”
But I still hear that free mans thoughts on the way things ought to be.
Still blowing in the winds of a storm we caused on the day we shot the peace.
 
The sun was out when the lightning flashed,
not a cloud in sight when you heard the crack!
one shot from a thirty aught, 
caught by an unarmed man.
 
And I saw him die in the news today,
every black man shot is a white man slain! 
Blood for blood, 
is the unspoken law of the land.
 
But blood stains red,
no matter what the color of man.. 
 
I wasn't there May thirty first nineteen sixty nine,
when a free man laid in bed eight days to show that peace was worth his time.
But I still hear that free mans thoughts on the way things ought to be.
He gave peace a chance every chance he got until the day we shot the peace! 
 
Thirty six years since yesterday,
only found peace when he passed away.
Five shots from a thirty eight,
weighing down a gun mans hand!
 
And I saw him die in the news today,
Vietnam survived under other names!
Fight for peace,
is the unspoken law of the land
 
But peace cant fight,
no matter what the cause of man.
 
Well I was born September twenty sixth nineteen eighty six,
and I watched as a free mans world went cold, in a storm we couldn't fix!
but I still speak my free mans thoughts on the way things ought to be,
because my words ring louder than the guns we brought on the day we shot the peace!
 
Fifteen years since the planes came down,
not free mans thought, not a free mans sound!
Trading freedom for our fear,
in the actions of an unknown man!
 
You might see me die in the news today, 
every free mans thought is a free mans grave!
Be quiet or be killed, 
is the unspoken law of the land!
 
but free men get louder, 
when freedom's slipping through their hands!
 
Free men get louder, 
when freedom's slipping through their hands!