Glass House

April 1, 2015.  © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

I see your eyes, 
Watching me, 
But there’s nothing that they’ll ever see.
I built your home from an hour glass running out on me.
 
Grain by grain,
Your empire,
Forged in fire ablaze by desire.
Every grain turned to pane as the pain became all I could be.
 
Stacking up the sands of time for your infamous glass house
Stoking up the fires of hell to build your walls around me
Passion and desire just cast into a fire I can’t douse
Deconstructing time to lay between the lines as the moon light shines in unseen
 
Etching chapters of my life from pages that I write in your glass house
Raise another wall is all you ever asked me to do  
Maybe when it’s built the guilt of all I’ve lost can be cast out
Echo’s in my head, the words I never said, lay to bed all my hatred for you
 
Close my eyes, 
Feel the sigh,
As the last wall begins to rise.
Another sun set sets as you laugh from the other side.
 
Sand is gone, 
End is neigh, 
Clasped by chains linked by unbroken pride.
Through the breath stained glass I can see I’m alone inside.
 
Stacking up the storm torn pages of my life in your glass house
There is a forlorn moon light silhouetting shadows unseen
Reflections playing movies with a fire in my eyes that I can’t douse 
Simulating stages of a story’s burning pages as the monster is created in me
 
I’ve got that sore throat feeling as the sealing crashes down in your glass house
Numb from the cold stone whiskey river flowing through me
And since my hearts on rocks served straight cold and locked in a glass now
Ill fuel a fire with the pages of a faded love that rages on a stage as great as history
 
Shards of glass,
Broken down, 
Set to fire the hatred I found.
Bleed the poison from my veins that you thought I’d keep inside me
 
Stoke the fires, 
Fuel my pride,
Revive all the things that have died.
Writing on the black stained pages that I stack,
Etched in every single glass piece,
You’re never coming back!
 
Cause I’m busting down the doors, and tearing down the walls in your glass house
Reconstructing time out of every single wall I can see
Ashes pile high cause I refuse to die in this glass house
Deconstructing pane fueling fire with the pain and every bit of life within me
 
There’s a tower standing tall in a hole where once stood your glass house
And a beacon burning strong at the top so that all eyes can see
You’re looking at a man with a fire burning hot as it can now
As you shiver through the night, looking on with those eyes, at something that you’ll never see… 