The Confession 
  
September 9, 2023.  © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved 

I don’t know if he was told, on the eve of his own life. 
That he would be the king of kings, and your sacrifice. 
I don’t know how Mary felt when she stood in the angels’ light.
I can only know what I was told about the things to pass that night. 
How a star was hung above, to guide so many to the place
Where there would be the son of God, who’d save the human race. 
A beacon of Gods love, His mercy and His grace. 
I wonder did that little boy know what he would face. 
Because he lived, I have strength to face each day. 
Because he walked, I have a path to guide my way. 
Because he spoke, I can hear his words today.
Dear god I pray, I know he lived. 
I don’t know what he was told, on the eve of that dark day. 
When he was deep in prayer of what’s to come by the hands of those he’d save 
I can’t even bear to try, to know the suffering that he faced.
Or the pain of both the son and father, when God had to turn away. 
How could anything compare to the hurt that is the price. 
To forgive the sins of those that bartered sin for perfect life.
When he cried out it is done, it was all that could suffice. 
Not from our works, but by his grace, to save our retched lives. 
Because he died, I have all the love I need. 
Because he blead, I was grafted to the tree.
Because he wept, my eyes are clear enough to see.
Dear God its me, I know he died.
On the eve of his return, I can only now assume
That the hearts of those he loved and lead were full of dread and gloom
And what could have Mary thought in that open empty room. 
Where once laid dead the son of God was now an empty tomb. 
How can my heart conceive, the joy that must have been
When he revealed himself to those who saw their teachers end
I didn’t see him standing there, I did not see his grace ascend. 
All I know for sure is I believe he will walk this earth again. 
Because he lives, I know the words you spoke are true.
Because he walks, I have a place to walk with you.
Because he speaks, I can hear what you will do.
I say to you, I know he lives. 
I know you live, and it’s you I can be sure.
I see you now, as we walk on heaven’s shore.
And because I know, I am confessed before the lord. 
Forever more, I know you live.