The Big Picture


May 13, 2016. © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

So sick and tired of always falling apart,
putting my pieces back is all but an art.
The world's behind me, but I've still got so far to go.
Mapping what I am is a good place to start,
it's where I started but there's nothing to chart.
A million puzzles into pieces, with no picture to show.

I fear the worst is yet to come,
I wish these chains would come undone,
so I could show the world how I really feel!

I knew that I'd be the best,
But I guess I never made it that far.
Does anybody know how I feel?
When you're dressed to impress,
but in the end you're tripping over the bar.
And every day I'm feeling the strain,
two steps back for every step I gain,
and if I tried it again,
the end would only be the same.

Somewhere out there,
there is a place for me and you.
Let us go where,
there isn't anything we can't do.

Force fitting pieces, never taking a rest,
testing my fate and always failing the test.
I guessed my way through every turn I was told to take.
Making my fortune lest I'm misery's guest,
still feeling fortune-less despite all my best.
The picture's perfect, but the colors are quick to fade.

I fear the worst is yet to be,
gilding these chains latched into me.
It seems the world is feeling how I really feel!

Some say I am the best,
But I know I never made it that far.
The whole world knows how I feel,
it's like I'm dressed to impress,
but in my head I'm always under the bar.
And everybody's feeling the strain,
The more you get, the less you gain,
and if I did it again,
the end would only be the same.

Somewhere out there,
there is a place for me and you.
Let us go where,
there isn't anything we can't do.

So sick and tired of always falling apart,
falling to pieces was the best way to start.
So there I left it, and it's there that the picture was clear.
Mapping myself was nothing I had to start,
The world behind me matched the lines on the chart.
A million puzzles into pieces was the picture I feared.

I see the worst is in the past,
I feel the chains release at last,
Now I can tell the world how I really feel!

some say that I am a mess,
I'm impressed I even made it that far.
If you only knew how it feels,
to stop the quest to impress,
and invest in only who you are.
If everybody's feeling the strain,
there isn't anything left to gain,
but if I did it again,
I guess I'd probably do it the same.

Somewhere Out there,
there is a place for me and you.
I will be where,
there isn't anything we can't do.

There isn't anything we can't do