The Keeper of Her Shadow

I took her hand in eighty-five, and joined her soul to mine
Knowing we could take whatever, big or small.
Lost the feeling once or twice, broke her heart, and she broke mine
But our love was all we needed to break the fall.
I am as strong a man as any, but its she that carried me.
I am her sword, her shield, her armor in our tales.
She’s the writer of my pages, through the ages we would see.
I am the pen, the ink, and proof that armor fails.
When I promised her forever, I thought that's just what we'd see.
I never dreamt this time together would ever end with only me.
Her memory earthly bound, and she goes wherever I go.
I'm a man baptized in silence, I’m the keeper of her shadow.
Lord, I carry her within me now that she no longer stands.
Every step I take her weight adds to my own.
No one tells you griefs a desert, now the time just adds the sand.
As the winds of change try to bury me alone.
My back turned to the sun, drying up, and marching on.
Our silhouette still dances in the light.
It’s the show that keeps me goin’, in the daylight we are one.
But our bed is cold and empty every night.
God knows this ain’t no livin’, but I can’t lose her again.
I don't know where I'm going, only she knows where I've been.
She left this world without me, now without her what am I though.
Just a man baptized in silence, and the keeper of her shadow.
God, I know you left her with me, God, I know you built me strong.
God, I blamed you, now I thank you, I was wrong.
I didn’t fail her as her armor, I’m the reason she ain’t gone.
She still carries me to you until I’m home.
I don’t ask this world for pity, I don’t beg, and I don’t bend.
Still her sword, her shield, her armor in our tale.
I promised her forever, and forever has no end.
If amen bears any solace I will prevail
No, I wasn’t taken with her, it is with her I have gone.
We still walk this world together; I protect her right or wrong.
I bear this cross with gladness, though it’s a sadness that I know.
I am a man baptized in silence, I’m the keeper of her shadow.

Written by Talon Cherry for Kent Cherry.