When the lights go out
  
December 12, 2015.  © Talon Truitt Cherry, All rights reserved

Each night I try to hold you,
but there is no one there holding onto me.
Everything I try just won't do,
another day undone by things I can't see.
That's a clever disguise, 
fools me every time.
The silence you use to hide the lie that's behind,
those eyes.
 
If you didn't want to talk about it,
then there was nothing for us to talk about.
And now you've got me thinking about it,
I can't get through to you when you turn around.
 
I guess if you don't want to talk about it,
then there is nothing left to talk about.
I'll try to sleep not thinking about it.
Its like there's no one there when the lights go out.
Its like there's no one there when the lights go out.
 
Every word you breathe is poison, 
and each breath you draw, like blades into me.
You know just where to hold them,
so I can never come up off of my knees.
That's a clever disguise, 
fools me every time.
The anger you use to hide the truth that's behind,
those eyes.
 
If you don't want to talk about it,
then there is nothing left to talk about.
Its been so long since I thought about it,
if its the same to you I'll just turn around.
 
Because if you don't want to talk about it,
then there is nothing left to shout about.
I've been sleeping just fine not thinking about it.
It isn't me you're seeing when the lights go out.
It isn't me you're seeing when the lights go out.
 
Now its your choice to be chosen,
I find it funny how it's you leaving me.
Every door I opened, close them,
shut the last one just before you leave.
That's a clever disguise, 
fools me every time.
The knowledge you use to hide the fear that's behind,
those eyes.
 
You won't see me cry about it,
because there is nothing left to cry about.
My eyes dry up just thinking about it,
walk the other way, don't ever turn around.
 
You don't have to scream about it!
because there is nothing left to scream about.
I like to tell myself you never thought about it.
That makes it easy to take when the lights go out
That makes it easy to take when the lights go out. 